7과
(1)
Take a look at some of the most powerful, rich, and
famous people in the world. Ignore the trappings of their
success and what they’re able to buy. Look instead at what
they’re forced to trade in return ― look at what success has
cost them. Mostly? Freedom. Their work demands they wear
a suit. Their success depends on attending certain parties,
kissing up to people they don’t like. It will require ―
inevitably ― realizing they are unable to say what they
actually think. Worse, it demands that they become a
different type of person or do bad things. Sure, it might pay
well — but they haven’t truly examined the transaction. As
Seneca put it, “Slavery resides under marble and gold.” Too
many successful people are prisoners in jails of their own
making. Is that what you want? Is that what you’re working
hard toward? Let’s hope not.

(2)
People seem to recognize that the arts are cultural
activities that draw on (or react against) certain cultural
traditions, certain shared understanding, and certain values
and ideas that are characteristic of the time and place in
which the art is created. In the case of science, however,
opinions differ. Some scientists, like the great biologist J. B.
S. Haldane, see science in a similar light ― as a historical
activity that occurs in a particular time and place, and that
needs to be understood within that context. Others,
however, see science as a purely “objective” pursuit,
uninfluenced by the cultural viewpoint and values of those
who create it. In describing this view of science, philosopher
Hugh Lacey speaks of the belief that there is an underlying
order of the world which is simply there to be discovered ―
the world of pure “fact” stripped of any link with value. The
aim of science according to this view is to represent this
world of pure “fact”, independently of any relationship it
might bear contingently to human practices and experiences.

(3)
Manufacturers masterfully sow seeds of doubt about the
adequacy of our current devices. Suddenly, the phone that was
your lifeline a year ago is now a museum piece, unable to keep
pace with your digital demands. And thus, the itch to upgrade
begins, often before there’s a genuine need. This cycle isn’t just
confined to our digital companions. It spills over into almost
every aspect of consumer electronics, from the self-driving car
to the smart fridge. Every product seems to be on an unstoppable
march towards the next version, the next generation that
promises to revolutionize your life. What’s fascinating, or perhaps
disturbing, is the utter efficacy of this cycle in shaping our
desires. It’s not so much that we want the newest device; we’re
led to believe we need it. The distinction between want and need
blurs, shifting our financial priorities in favor of staying current
with trends. For all the logical arguments against this ceaseless
upgrading, the temptation remains compelling.

(4)
도표

(5)
The built­in capacity for smiling is proven by the
remarkable observation that babies who are congenitally
both deaf and blind, who have never seen a human face, also
start to smile at around 2 months. However, smiling in blind
babies eventually disappears if nothing is done to
reinforce it. Without the right feedback, smiling dies out. But
here’s a fascinating fact: blind babies will continue to smile
if they are cuddled, bounced, nudged, and tickled by an adult
― anything to let them know that they are not alone and
that someone cares about them. This social feedback
encourages the baby to continue smiling. In this way, early
experience operates with our biology to establish social
behaviors. In fact, you don’t need the cases of blind babies
to make the point. Babies with sight smile more at you
when you look at them or, better still, smile back at
them.

(6)
Because people tend to adapt, interrupting positive things
with negative ones can actually increase enjoyment. Take
commercials. Most people hate them, so removing them
should make shows or other entertainment more enjoyable.
But the opposite is true. Shows are actually more
enjoyable when they’re broken up by annoying commercials.
Because these less enjoyable moments break up adaptation
to the positive experience of the show. Think about
eating chocolate chips. The first chip is delicious: sweet,
melt­in­your­mouth goodness. The second chip is also pretty
good. But by the fourth, fifth, or tenth chip in a row, the
goodness is no longer as pleasurable. We adapt.
Interspersing positive experiences with less positive ones,
however, can slow down adaptation. Eating a Brussels
sprout between chocolate chips or viewing commercials
between parts of TV shows disrupts the process. The less
positive moment makes the following positive one new
again and thus more enjoyable.

(7)
Rebels may think they’re rebels, but clever marketers
influence them just like the rest of us. Saying, “Everyone is
doing it” may turn some people off from an idea. These
people will look for alternatives, which (if cleverly planned)
can be exactly what a marketer or persuader wants you to
believe. If I want you to consider an idea, and know you
strongly reject popular opinion in favor of maintaining your
independence and uniqueness, I would present the majority
option first, which you would reject in favor of my actual
preference. We are often tricked when we try to maintain a
position of defiance. People use reversal this to make
usindependently” choose an option which suits their
purposes. Some brands have taken full effect of our defiance
towards the mainstream and positioned themselves as rebels;
which has created even stronger brand loyalty. 

(8)
Free play is nature’s means of teaching children that they
are not helpless. In play, away from adults, children
really do have control and can practice asserting it. In free
play, children learn to make their own decisions, solve their
own problems, create and follow rules, and get along with
others as equals rather than as obedient or rebellious
subordinates. In active outdoor play, children deliberately
dose themselves with moderate amounts of fear and they
thereby learn how to control not only their bodies, but also
their fear. In social play children learn how to negotiate with
others, how to please others, and how to manage and
overcome the anger that can arise from conflicts. None of
these lessons can be taught through verbal means; they can
be learned only through experience, which free play
provides.

(9)
The irony of early democracy in Europe is that it thrived
and prospered precisely because European rulers for a very
long time were remarkably weak. For more than a
millennium after the fall of Rome, European rulers lacked
the ability to assess what their people were producing and
to levy substantial taxes based on this. The most striking
way to illustrate European weakness is to show how little
revenue they collected. Europeans would eventually develop strong
systems of revenue collection, but it took them an awfully
long time to do so. In medieval times, and for part of the
early modern era, Chinese emperors and Muslim caliphs
were able to extract much more of economic production than
any European ruler with the exception of small city­states.

(10)
There are deep similarities between viral contagion and
behavioral contagion. For example, people in close or
extended proximity to others infected by a virus are
themselves more likely to become infected, just as people
are more likely to drink excessively when they spend more
time in the company of heavy drinkers. But there are also
important differences between the two types of contagion.
One is that visibility promotes behavioral contagion but inhibits
the spread of infectious diseases. Solar panels that are
visible from the street, for instance, are more likely to
stimulate neighboring installations. In contrast, we try
to avoid others who are visibly ill. Another important
difference is that whereas viral contagion is almost always a
bad thing, behavioral contagion is sometimes negative ― as
in the case of smoking ― but sometimes positive, as in the
case of solar installations.

(11)
One way to avoid contributing to overhyping a story would
be to say nothing. However, that is not a realistic option for
scientists who feel a strong sense of responsibility to inform
the public and policymakers and/or to offer suggestions.
Speaking with members of the media has advantages in
getting a message out and perhaps receiving favorable
recognition, but it runs the risk of misinterpretations, the need
for repeated clarifications, and entanglement in never-ending
controversy. Hence, the decision of whether to speak with the
media tends to be highly individualized. Decades ago, it
was unusual for Earth scientists to have results that were
of interest to the media, and consequently few media contacts
were expected or encouraged. In the 1970s, the few scientists
who spoke frequently with the media were often criticized
by their fellow scientists for having done so. The situation
now is quite different, as many scientists feel a responsibility
to speak out because of the importance of global warming and
related issues, and many reporters share these feelings. In
addition, many scientists are finding that they enjoy the
media attention and the public recognition that comes with it.
At the same time, other scientists continue to resist speaking
with reporters, thereby preserving more time for their science
and avoiding the risk of being misquoted and the other
unpleasantries associated with media coverage.

8과
(1)
Agriculture includes a range of activities such as planting,
harvesting, fertilizing, pest management, raising animals, and
distributing food and agricultural products. It is one of the oldest
and most essential human activities, dating back thousands of
years, and has played a critical role in the development of human
civilizations, allowing people to create stable food supplies and
settle in one place. Today, agriculture remains a vital industry
that feeds the world’s population, supports rural communities,
and provides raw materials for other industries. However,
agriculture faces numerous challenges such as climate change,
water scarcity, soil degradation, and biodiversity loss. As the
world’s population continues to grow, it is essential to find
sustainable solutions to address the challenges facing agriculture
and ensure the continued production of food and other agricultural
products.

(2)
Studies by Vosniado and Brewer illustrate Fish is
Fish­style assimilation in the context of young children’s
thinking about the earth. They worked with children who
believed that the earth is flat (because this fit their
experiences) and attempted to help them understand that, in
fact, it is spherical. When told it is round, children often
pictured the earth as a pancake rather than as a sphere. If
they were then told that it is round like a sphere, they
interpreted the new information about a spherical earth
within their flat­earth view by picturing a pancake­like flat
surface inside or on top of a sphere, with humans standing
on top of the pancake. The model of the earth that they had
developed — and that helped them explain how they could
stand or walk upon its surface — did not fit the model of a
spherical earth. Like the story Fish is Fish, where a fish
imagines everything on land to be fish­like, everything the
children heard was incorporated into their preexisting views.

(3)
What consequences of eating too many grapes and other
sweet fruit could there possibly be for our brains? A few
large studies have helped to shed some light. In one, higher
fruit intake in older, cognitively healthy adults was linked
with less volume in the hippocampus. This finding was
unusual, since people who eat more fruit usually display the
benefits associated with a healthy diet. In this study,
however, the researchers isolated various components of the
subjects’ diets and found that fruit didn’t seem to be doing
their memory centers any favors. Another study from the
Mayo Clinic saw a similar inverse relationship between fruit
intake and volume of the cortex, the large outer layer of the
brain. Researchers in the latter study noted that excessive
consumption of high‑sugar fruit (such as mangoes, bananas,
and pineapples) may cause metabolic and cognitive problems
as much as processed carbs do.

(4)
도표

(5)
Pre-emption means that a strategy is designed to prevent a
rival from starting some particular activity. In some case a
pre-emptive move may simply be an announcement of some
intent that might discourage rivals from doing the same. The
idea of pre-emption implies that timing is sometimes very
important — a decision or an action at one point in time might
be much more rewarding than doing it at a different time
point. Pre-emption may involve up-weighting advertising for a
period before and during when a new entrant launches into a
market. The intent is to make it more difficult for the new
entrant’s advertising to make an impression on potential
buyers. Product proliferation is another potential pre-emption
strategy. The general idea is to launch a large variety of
product variants so that there is very little in the way of
market demand that is not accommodated. Arguably, if a
market is already filled with product variants it is more difficult
for competitors to find untapped pockets of market demand.

(6)
Information encountered after an event can influence subsequent
remembering. External information can easily integrate into a
witness’s memory, especially if the event was poorly encoded or
the memory is from a distant event, in which case time and
forgetting have degraded the original memory. With reduced
information available in memory with which to confirm the
validity of post-event misinformation, it is less likely that
this new information will be rejected. Instead, especially when
it fits the witness’s current thinking and can be used to create
a story that makes sense to him or her, it may be integrated as
part of the original experience. This process can be explicit
(i.e., the witness knows it is happening), but it is often unconscious.
That is, the witness might find himself or herself thinking about 
the event differently without awareness. Over time, the witness may
not even know the source of information that led to the (new) memory.
Sources of misinformation in forensic contexts can be encountered
anywhere, from discussions with other witnesses to social media
searches to multiple interviews with investigators or other legal
professionals, and even in court.

(7)
As always happens with natural selection, bats and their
prey have been engaged in a life­or­death sensory arms race
for millions of years. It’s believed that hearing in moths arose
specifically in response to the threat of being eaten by bats.
(Not all insects can hear.) Over millions of years, moths
have evolved the ability to detect sounds at ever higher
frequencies, and, as they have, the frequencies of bats’
vocalizations have risen, too. Some moth species have also
evolved scales on their wings and a fur­like coat on their
bodies; both act as “acoustic camouflage,” by absorbing
sound waves in the frequencies emitted by bats, thereby
preventing those sound waves from bouncing back. The B­2
bomber and other “stealth” aircraft have fuselages made of
materials that do something similar with radar beams.

(8)
The potential for market enforcement is greater when
contracting parties have developed reputational capital that
can be devalued when contracts are violated.
 Farmers and landowners develop reputations for honesty,
fairness, producing high yields, and consistently demonstrating
that they are good at what they do. In small, close-knit
farming communities, reputations are well known.
 Over time landowners indirectly monitor farmers by
observing the reported output, the general quality of the soil,
and any unusual or extreme behavior. Farmer and landowner
reputations act as a bond. In any growing season a farmer can
reduce effort, overuse soil, or underreport the crop.
Similarly, a landowner can undermaintain fences, ditches,
and irrigation systems. Accurate assessments of farmer
and landowner behavior will be made over time, and
those farmers and landowners who attempt to gain at each
other’s expense will find that others may refuse to deal
with them in the future.

(9)
A young child may be puzzled when asked to
distinguish between the directions of right and left. But
that same child may have no difficulty in determining the
directions of up and down or back and front. Scientists
propose that this occurs because, although we experience
three dimensions, only two had a strong influence on our
evolution: the vertical dimension as defined by gravity
and, in mobile species, the front/back dimension as
defined by the positioning of sensory and feeding
mechanisms. These influence our perception of vertical
versus horizontal, far versus close, and the search for
dangers from above (such as an eagle) or below (such
as a snake). However, the left‑right axis is not as
relevant in nature. A bear is equally dangerous from its
left or the right side, but not if it is upside down. In
fact, when observing a scene containing plants, animals,
and man‑made objects such as cars or street signs, we
can only tell when left and right have been inverted if
we observe those artificial items.
-->
Having affected the evolution of our spatial perception,
vertical and front/back dimensions are easily perceived,
but the left‑right axis, which is not significant in nature,
doesn’t come instantly to us.

(10)
Ms. Blake walked along the edge of the soccer field,
watching Eva pack up her things after practice. She paused
for a moment, then called out, “Hey, Eva! How about
staying a little longer? We can work on some drills — just
the two of us.” Eva hesitated. “I don’t know, Coach. I’m
pretty tired.” Ms. Blake gave her a warm smile. “Just ten
minutes. It’ll be fun. I promise.” Finally, Eva agreed,
though she still seemed reluctant. They practiced
passing the ball together. Ms. Blake noticed that Eva’s
movements were slow and that her focus seemed elsewhere.
Breaking the silence, Ms. Blake asked, “Do you remember
the final game last year?” “Yeah, I remember.” Eva recalled
the game where she scored three goals. “I was quite good
back then.” “You still are,” replied Ms. Blake. “Well, now
I’m so worried I can’t score a goal or even pass the ball
properly. I’m afraid of making mistakes,” said Eva.
Ms. Blake stepped closer and placed a reassuring hand
on Eva’s shoulder. She suggested, “You don’t have to be
perfect. Soccer isn’t about perfection — it’s about passion.
And you’ve always had plenty of that.” Eva’s gaze met
Ms. Blake’s. “Do you really think so?” Ms. Blake said
firmly, “Yes. The way you play, the energy you bring —
that’s what makes you special. Not the goals scored or
the trophies won. It’s the love you have for the game.”
Eva nodded thoughtfully. The next game, Ms. Blake watched
from the sidelines as Eva played. There was a new confidence
that hadn’t been there before. Eva didn’t score but led the team
successfully. After the game she ran over, saying,
“Thanks for believing in me, Coach.” Ms. Blake smiled
back. “You’ve always had it in you. I’m just here to remind
you of that.” Eva’s face softened, as she realized she
had been too hard on herself. She said to herself,
“What matters is doing my best, not being perfect.”

7과
(1)
세계에서 가장 힘있고, 부유하며, 유명한 사람들 중 몇
몇을 살펴봐라. 그들의 성공의 장식과 그들이 살 수 있는
것을 무시해라. 대신 그들이 맞바꿔야 하는 것을 봐라 ―
성공이 그들에게 치르게 한 것을 봐라. 대부분은? 자유
이다. 그들의 업무는 그들이 정장을 입는 것을 요구한다.
그들의 성공은 특정 파티에 참석하여, 그들이 좋아하지
않는 사람들에게 아첨하는 것에 달려 있다. 그것은 요구
할 것이다 ―필연적으로 ―그들이 실제로 생각하는 것을
말할 수 없다는 사실을 깨닫는 것을. 더 나쁜 것은, 그것
은 그들이 다른 유형의 사람이 되거나 부당한 일을 하도
록 요구한다는 것이다. 물론, 그것은 많은 이익이 될지도
모른다 ― 그러나 그들은 그 거래를 제대로 고찰한 적이
없다. Seneca가 말했듯이, “대리석과 황금 아래에 노예
상태가 존재한다.” 너무 많은 성공한 사람들은 그들이 스
스로 만든 감옥의 죄수들이다. 그것이 당신이 원하는 것
인가? 그것이 당신이 목표로 하여 열심히 일하고 있는
것인가? 그렇지 않기를 바라자.

(2)
사람들은 예술을 예술이 만들어진 시기와
장소에 특유한 특정 문화적 전통, 특정 공유 지식,
그리고 특정 가치와 아이디어에 기반한(또는 이에
반하는) 문화적 활동이라고 인식하는 것 같다. 하
지만 과학의 경우에는 의견이 갈린다. 위대한 생
물학자 J. B. S. Haldane과 같은 일부 과학자들은
유사한 관점에서 과학을 보는데, 특정한 시기와
장소에서 발생하고 그 맥락 안에서 이해될 필요가
있는 역사적 활동으로 보는 것이다. 하지만 다른
사람들은 과학을 그것을 만들어 내는 사람들의 문
화적 관점과 가치에 의해 영향을 받지 않는 순전
히 ‘객관적인’ 일로 본다. 과학에 대한 이러한 관
점을 묘사할 때, 철학자 Hugh Lacey는 단순히 거
기에 있어서 발견되는 세계의 근원적인 질서가
있다는 믿음에 대해 말하는데, 이것은 가치와 어떠
한 연관도 없는 순전한 ‘사실’의 세계이다. 이러한
관점에 따라 과학의 목적은 이러한 순전한 ‘사실’ 의
세계를 나타내는 것인데, 그것이 인간의 관습
및 경험과 혹여라도 맺을 수 있는 어떠한 관계와
도 무관하게 말이다.

(3)
 생산자들은 노련하게 우리의 현재 기기들의
적절성에 대한 의심의 씨앗을 뿌린다. 갑자기, 1년
전의 당신의 목숨줄이었던 휴대폰이 지금은 당신의
디지털 수요를 따라가지 못하는, 시대에 뒤떨어진 것
이 되었다. 그래서 종종 진짜 필요가 있기 이전에 업
그레이드에 대한 욕구가 시작된다. 이러한 순환은 단
지 우리의 디지털 용품에 국한되지 않는다. 이것은
자율 주행 자동차부터 스마트 냉장고에 이르기까지
소비자 전자 기기들의 거의 모든 영역까지 번져나간
다. 모든 제품은 다음 버전, 즉, 당신의 삶에 변혁을
일으키겠다는 약속을 하는 다음 세대를 향한 멈출
수 없는 행진을 하는 것으로 보인다. 흥미로운 점,
또는 어쩌면 당황스러운 점은 우리의 욕구를 형성하
는 이 순환의 절대적인 효과이다. 우리가 가장 최신
기기를 원하는 것이 아니라, 우리가 그것을 원한다고
믿도록 유도된 것이다. 최신 트렌드를 유지하는 것을
선호하는 쪽으로 우리의 재정적인 우선순위를 바꾸
면서, 원하는 것과 필요한 것 사이의 구분이 흐릿해
진다. 이런 끊임없는 업그레이드를 하는 것에 대한
논리적인 논쟁에도 불구하고, 매력은 여전히 강력하
다.

(4)
도표

(5)
미소 짓기에 대한 선천적인 능력은 선천적으로 청각
장애와 시각장애가 있고, 사람 얼굴을 한 번도 본 적이
없는 아기들도, 약 2개월 즈음에 미소를 짓기 시작한다
는 놀라운 관찰에 의해 증명된다. 그러나, 시각장애를
가진 아기의 미소 짓기는 그것을 강화하기 위해 아무것
도 행해지지 않으면 결국 사라진다. 적절한 피드백이
없으면, 미소 짓기는 사라진다. 하지만 여기에 흥미로운
사실이 있다: 만약 그들이 어른에 의해서 안기고, 흔들
리고, 슬쩍 찔리고, 간지럽혀지면 ― 그들이 혼자가 아니
며 누군가 그들에게 관심을 갖고 있다는 것을 알게 하
는 것 ― 시각장애를 가진 아기들은 계속 미소를 지을
것이다. 이러한 사회적 피드백은 그 아기가 계속 미
소를 지을 수 있도록 조장한다. 이런 방식으로, 초기
경험은 우리의 생리 작용과 함께 작용하여 사회적 행
동을 형성한다. 사실, 당신은 이를 설명하기 위해 시
각장애를 가진 아기의 사례들을 필요로 하지 않는다.
시력이 있는 아기들은 당신이 그들을 바라볼 때나,
더 나아가, 당신이 그들에게 미소를 지어줄 때, 당신
에게 더 많이 미소 짓는다.

(6)
사람들은 적응하는 경향이 있기 때문에, 긍정적인 것
을 부정적인 것으로 방해하는 것이 실제로는 즐거움을
향상시킬 수 있다. 광고를 예로 들어 보자. 대부분의 사
람들은 그것들을 싫어해서, 그것들을 제거하는 것이 쇼
나 다른 오락물을 더 즐겁게 만들 수 있다. 하지만 그
반대가 사실이다. 쇼는 그것들이 성가신 광고들에 의해
중단될 때 실제로 더 즐거워진다. 왜냐하면 이러한 덜
즐거운 순간들이 쇼의 긍정적인 경험에 대한 적응을 깨
뜨리기 때문이다. 초콜릿 칩을 먹는 것을 생각해 보라.
첫 번째 칩은 맛있다: 달콤하고, 입안에서 살살 녹는 좋
은 맛. 두 번째 칩도 꽤 맛있다. 하지만 네 번째, 다섯
번째, 혹은 열 번째 칩을 연속으로 먹으면 그 좋은 맛
은 더 이상 즐겁지 않다. 우리는 적응한다. 그러나, 긍
정적인 경험들에 덜 긍정적인 경험들을 간격을 두고 배
치하는 것은 적응을 늦출 수 있다. 초콜
릿 칩 사이에 방울양배추를 먹거나 TV 쇼의 파트 사이
에 광고를 보는 것은 이 과정을 방해한다. 덜 긍정적인
순간은 뒤에 오는 긍정적인 순간을 다시 새롭게 만들어
서 더 즐겁게 만든다.

(7)
반항자들은 자신들이 반항자라고 생각할지
도 모르지만, 영리한 마케터들은 나머지 우리에게
그러듯이 그들에게 영향을 준다. “모두가 그것을
하고 있다.”라고 말하는 것은 일부 사람들로 하여
금 어떠한 생각에 대해 흥미를 잃게 할지도 모른
다. 이 사람들은 대안을 찾을 것이고, 그것은 (만
약 영리하게 계획된다면) 정확히 마케터나 설득자
가 여러분이 믿기를 원하는 것일 수 있다. 만약
내가 여러분이 한 아이디어를 고려하길 바라고,
여러분의 독립성과 유일성을 유지하기 위해 대중
적인 의견을 강하게 거부한다는 것을 안다면, 나
는 대다수가 선택하는 것을 먼저 제시할 것이고,
여러분은 내가 실제로 선호하는 것에 맞게 그것을
거부할 것이다. 우리는 반항의 입장을 유지하려고
할 때 종종 속는다. 사람들은 우리가 그들의 목적
에 맞는 선택지를 ‘독자적으로’ 택하도록 만들기
위해 이러한 반전을 사용한다. 일부 브랜드들은
주류에 대한 우리의 반항을 완전히 활용하여 스스
로를 반항자로 자리매김해 왔고, 이는 훨씬 더 강
력한 브랜드 충성도를 만들어 왔다.

(8)
자유 놀이는 아이들에게 자신이 무력하지 않다는 것
을 가르치는 자연의 수단이다. 어른과 떨어져 놀면서,
아이들은 통제력을 정말로 가지고 그것을 발휘하는 것
을 연습할 수 있다. 자유 놀이를 통해, 아이들은 스스
로 결정을 내리고, 자신들만의 문제를 해결하고, 규칙
을 만들고 지키며, 복종적이거나 반항적인 아랫사람이
라기보다는 동등한 사람으로서 다른 사람과 어울리는
것을 배운다. 활동적인 야외 놀이를 통해, 아이들은 의
도적으로 자기 자신에게 적절한 수준의 두려움을 주
고, 그렇게 함으로써 그들의 신체뿐만 아니라 두려움
또한 통제하는 법을 배운다. 사회적인 놀이를 통해 아
이들은 어떻게 다른 사람과 협상하고, 다른 사람을 기
쁘게 하며, 갈등으로부터 생길 수 있는 분노를 다스리
고 극복할 수 있는지를 배운다. 이러한 교훈 중 어느
것도 언어적 수단을 통해서는 배울 수 없다. 그것들은
오로지 경험을 통해서만 배울 수 있는데, 그것은 자유
놀이가 제공하는 것이다.

(9)
유럽 초기 민주주의의 아이러니는 바로 유
럽의 통치자들이 매우 오랫동안 현저하게 약했기
때문에 그것이 번성하고 번영했다는 것이다. 로마
의 멸망 후 천 년 넘게, 유럽의 통치자들은 백성
들이 생산하고 있었던 것을 평가하고 이를 바탕으
로 상당한 세금을 부과할 능력이 부족했다. 유럽
의 약함을 설명하는 가장 눈에 띄는 방법은 그들
이 거둔 세입이 얼마나 적은지를 보여주는 것이다.
유럽인들은 결국 강력한 세입 징수 시스템을 개발했지만,
그렇게 하는 데는 엄청나게 오랜 시간이 걸렸다.
중세와 초기 근대의 일부 동안, 중국의 황제들과
이슬람 문명의 칼리프들은 작은 도시 국가들을 제
외한 어떤 유럽 통치자들보다 경제적 생산물에서
훨씬 더 많은 것을 얻어낼 수 있었다.

(10)
뇌는 그것의 연료인 포도당의 고에너지 소
비자이다. 비록 뇌는 사람 체중의 단지 3퍼센트를
차지하지만, 사용 가능한 연료의 20퍼센트를 소비
한다. 그러나 여러분의 뇌는 연료를 저장할 수 없
고, 따라서 ‘활동하는 대로 대가를 지불’해야 한
다. 여러분의 뇌는 놀라울 정도로 적응력이 뛰어
나기 때문에, 그것의 연료 자원을 경제적으로 사
용한다. 따라서, 극심한 스트레스를 받는 기간 동
안, 뇌는 상황의 미묘한 차이의 분석에서 당면한
스트레스 상황에 대한 단일하고 고정된 초점으로
이동한다. 여러분은 스트레스를 받을 때 앉아서
삶의 의미에 대해 사색하지 않는다. 대신에, 여러
분은 어떤 행동을 취해야 할지 알아내려고 노력하
는 데 모든 에너지를 쏟는다. 그러나 때때로 뇌의
고차원적 사고 영역에서 자동적이고 반사적인 영
역으로의 이러한 이동은 여러분이 무언가를 생각
없이 너무 빨리하도록 이끌 수 있다.

(11)
이야기를 과대광고하는 것에 대한 기여를 피하는 한 가지 방법은 아무 말도 하지 않
는 것이다. 그러나 그것은 대중과 정책 입안자에게 정보를 전하고/전하거나 제안을
제공해야 한다는 강한 책임감을 느끼는 과학자들에게는 현실적인 선택안이 아니다. 언론 구성원들과의 대화는 메시지를 알려지게 하고 아마 호의적인 인정을 받을 수 있
다는 장점이 있지만, 오해를 일으키고 반복적인 해명이 필요하며 끝없는 논란에 얽힐
위험을 감수한다. 따라서 언론과 대화할지 여부는 아주 개인적으로 결정되는 경향이
있다. 수십 년 전에 지구과학자들이 언론의 흥미를 끄는 연구 결과를 발표하는 것은
드문 일이었고, 따라서 언론과의 접촉을 기대하거나 권장하는 것은 거의 없었다. 1970년대에는, 언론과 자주 대화하는 소수의 과학자들은 흔히 그렇게 한 것에 대해
동료 과학자들로부터 비난을 받았다. 지금은 상황이 아주 다른데, 많은 과학자가 지구
온난화와 관련 문제의 중요성 때문에 공개적으로 말해야 한다는 책임감을 느끼고 있
으며 많은 기자도 이런 감정들을 공유하고 있기 때문이다. 게다가, 많은 과학자는 자
신이 언론의 주목과 그에 따른 대중의 인정을 즐기고 있다는 사실을 알아 가고 있다. 동시에, 다른 과학자들은 기자들과의 대화를 계속 물리치며, 그렇게 함으로써 자신의
과학을 위해 더 많은 시간을 지켜 내고, 잘못 인용되는 위험과 언론 보도와 관련된
다른 불쾌한 상황을 피한다.

8과
(1)
농업은 파종, 수확, 비료 주기, 해충 관리, 동
물 사육, 그리고 식량 및 농산물 분배와 같은 다양한
활동들을 포함한다. 그것은 수천 년 전으로 거슬러
올라가는 가장 오래되고 필수적인 인간 활동 중 하
나이고, 인류 문명의 발전에 중요한 역할을 해 왔으
며, 사람들이 안정적인 식량을 생산하고 한곳에 정착
할 수 있게 허락해 주었다. 오늘날, 농업은 전 세계
인구를 먹여 살리고 농업 공동체를 지원하며 다른
산업에 원료를 공급하는 중요한 산업으로 남아 있다.
그러나, 농업은 기후 변화, 물 부족, 토질 저하, 생물
다양성 손실과 같은 수많은 문제에 직면하고 있다.
세계 인구가 계속해서 증가함에 따라, 농업이 직면한
문제를 다루고 식량과 다른 농산물의 지속적인 생산
을 보장하기 위한 지속 가능한 해결책을 찾는 것이
필수적이다.

(2)
Vosniado Brewer 와 의 연구는 지구에 관한 어린아이
들이 가진 생각의 맥락에서 Fish is Fish식의 동화를
보여준다 그들은 지구가 평평하다고 믿는 아이들을
(이것이 그들의 경험과 일치하기 때문에) 대상으로 연
구했고 사실은 지구가 구형이라는 것을 그들이 이해하
도록 도우려고 시도했다 지구가 둥글다는 말을 들으면
아이들은 흔히 지구를 구의 형태보다는 팬케이크와
같다고 상상했다 그런 다음 지구가 구처럼 둥글다는
말을 들으면 그들은 팬케이크처럼 평평한 표면이 구의
안쪽이나 위쪽에 있으며 사람들이 팬케이크 위에 서
있는 것을 상상함으로써 자신들의 평평한 지구라는 관
점 안에서 구형의 지구에 관한 새로운 정보를 해석했
다 자신들이 어떻게 지구의 표면에 서 있거나 걸을
수 있는지를 설명하는 데 도움이 된 그들이 개발한 지
구의 모형은 구형의 지구라는 모형과 일치하지 않았
다 물고기가 육지의 모든 것을 물고기와 닮은 것으로
상상한다는 Fish is Fish의 이야기처럼 아이들이 들은
모든 것은 그들의 기존 견해에 통합되었다.

(3)
포도와 그 외 달콤한 과일을 너무 많이 먹는 것이
과연 뇌에 어떤 영향을 미칠 수 있을까? 몇 가지 대규
모 연구가 (그것에 관한) 새로운 견해를 밝히는 데 도
움이 되었다. 한 연구에서는, 더 나이가 많고 인지적으
로 건강한 성인에서 더 많은 과일 섭취가 해마의 더
작은 용적과 연관되었다. 이 발견은 특이했는데, 그 이
유는 과일을 더 많이 먹는 사람들은 보통 건강한 식단
과 관련된 이점을 보여 주기 때문이었다. 하지만 이
연구에서, 연구원들은 피실험자 식단의 다양한 요소들
을 분리했고 과일이 그들의 기억 중추에 어떤 도움도
주지 않는 것처럼 보인다는 것을 발견했다. Mayo
Clinic의 또 다른 연구에서는 과일 섭취와 뇌의 커다란
바깥층인 피질의 용적 사이의 유사한 역관계를 확인했
다. 후자의 연구에서 연구원들은 (망고, 바나나, 파인
애플 같은) 고당도 과일의 과도한 섭취가 가공된 탄수
화물 식품만큼이나 크게 신진대사 문제와 인지적 문제
를 일으킬 수 있다는 점에 주목했다.

(4)
도표

(5)
선매 행위는 어떤 전략이 경쟁자로 하여금 어
떤 특정한 활동을 시작하는 것을 방지하기 위해 만들
어진다는 것을 의미한다. 어떤 경우에는 선제적 조치
는 단순히 경쟁자들이 같은 행동을 하는 것을 단념시
킬 수 있는 어떤 의도의 공표일 수도 있다. 선매 행
위 개념은 때로 타이밍이 매우 중요하다는 것을 암시
하는데, 즉 어떤 시점의 결정이나 조치는 다른 시점
에 그것을 하는 것보다 훨씬 더 득이 될 수 있다. 선
매 행위는 새로운 진입자가 시장에 진출하기 이전과
진출해 있는 동안에 광고의 가중치를 높이는 것을 포
함할 수 있다. 그 취지는 신규 진입자의 광고가 잠재
적 구매자들에게 인상을 남기는 것을 더 어렵게 만드
는 것이다. 제품 확산은 또 다른 잠재적인 선매 행위
전략이다. 일반적인 아이디어는 수용되지 않는 시장
수요의 방식이 거의 없도록 다양한 제품 변형을 출시
하는 것이다. 거의 틀림없이, 만약 시장이 제품 변형
으로 이미 채워져 있다면 경쟁자들은 아직 점유되지
않은 시장 수요 주머니를 찾기가 더 어렵다.

(6)
사건 후에 마주친 정보는 이후의 기억하는
것에 영향을 미칠 수 있다. 특히 사건이 불충분하게
부호화되었거나, 그 기억이 시간과 망각이 원래의 기
억을 저하시켜 온 먼 사건으로부터 온 것이라면, 외
부 정보는 목격자의 기억에 쉽게 통합될 수 있다. 사
건 후의 잘못된 정보의 유효성을 확인하기 위해 기
억에서 사용할 수 있는 줄어든 정보를 가지면, 이 새
로운 정보가 덜 거부될 듯하다. 대신에, 특히 그것이
목격자의 현재 생각과 맞고 그 또는 그녀에게 이해
되는 하나의 이야기를 만드는 데 사용될 수 있을 때,
그것은 원래 경험의 일부로서 통합될 수 있다. 이 과
정은 명시적일 수 있지만(즉, 목격자는 그것이 일어
나고 있다는 것을 알고 있다), 그것은 흔히 무의식적
이다. 즉, 목격자는 의식하지 못한 채 그 사건에 대
해 다르게 생각하는 그 자신 또는 그녀 자신을 발견
할지도 모른다. 시간이 지남에 따라, 목격자는 (새로
운) 기억으로 이끄는 정보의 출처조차 모를지도 모
른다. 법정의 상황에서의 잘못된 정보의 출처는 다른
목격자들과의 토론에서부터 소셜 미디어 조사들, 수
사관 또는 기타 법률 전문가들과의 다중 인터뷰들,
심지어 법정에서까지 어디에서나 마주쳐질 수 있다.

(7)
자연 선택에서 항상 그렇듯이, 박쥐와 그
먹잇감은 수백만 년 동안 생사를 가르는 감각 군
비 경쟁에 참여해 왔다. 나방의 청력은 특히 박쥐
에게 잡아먹히는 위협에 대한 반응으로 생겨난 것
으로 여겨진다. (모든 곤충이 들을 수 있는 것은
아니다.) 수백만 년 동안, 나방은 계속 더 높아진
주파수의 소리를 감지하는 능력을 진화시켰고, 그
것들이 그렇게 함에 따라 박쥐의 발성 주파수도 
높아졌다. 일부 나방 종은 또한 날개의 비늘과 몸
에 모피와 같은 외피를 진화시켰다. 둘 다 ‘음향
위장’의 역할을 하는데, 박쥐에 의해 방출되는 주
파수의 음파를 흡수함으로써, 그것으로 음파가 되
돌아가는 것을 방지한다. B­2 폭격기와 그 밖의
‘스텔스’ 항공기는 레이더 전파에 대해 유사한 것
을 하는 재료로 만들어진 기체를 가지고 있다.

(8)
시장 규제 집행 가능성은 계약 당사자들이 계약 위반 시 가치가 떨어질 수 있는 평판
자본을 구축한 경우에 더 크다. 농부와 지주는 높은 수확량을 생산하고, 자신이
하는 일을 잘한다는 것을 지속적으로 입증하면서 정직함과 공정함에 대한 평판을 쌓
아 나간다. 소규모의 긴밀히 맺어진 농업 공동체에서는 평판이 잘 알려져 있다.
시간이 지나면서 지주들은 보고된 생산량, 토양의 전반적인 질, 어떤 보기 드물거나
극단적인 행동을 관찰함으로써 농부들을 간접적으로 감시한다. 농부와 지주의 평판은
계약의 역할을 한다. 어떤 한 재배 철에 농부는 노력을 줄이거나 토양을 과도하게 사
용하거나 작물을 축소 보고할 수 있다. 마찬가지로, 지주는 울타리, 도랑, 관개
시스템을 제대로 관리하지 않을 수 있다. 농부와 지주의 행동에 대한 정확한 평가는
시간이 지남에 따라 이루어질 것이고, 상대방의 비용으로 이익을 취하려고 시도하는
농부와 지주는 다른 사람들이 향후 그들과의 거래를 거부할 수도 있다는 것을 알게
될 것이다.

(9)
오른쪽과 왼쪽의 방향을 구분하라고 요구받으면 어
린아이는 당황할 수 있다. 하지만 그 아이는 위아래나
앞뒤의 방향을 알아내는 데에는 전혀 어려움이 없을
것이다. 과학자들은 이것이 발생하는 이유는, 비록 우
리가 세 가지 차원을 경험하지만, 두 가지만이 우리의
진화에 강력한 영향을 미쳤기 때문이라고 주장하는데,
그것들은 중력에 의해 정의되는 수직적 차원과 이동하
는 종의 감각과 먹이 섭취 메커니즘의 배치로 정의되
는 앞/뒤 차원이다. 이것들은 수직 대 수평, 원거리 대
근거리에 대한 우리의 지각과 (독수리와 같은) 위로부
터의 또는 (뱀과 같은) 아래로부터의 위험 탐색에 영
향을 미친다. 그러나 좌‑우 축은 자연에서는 그만큼 중
요하지 않다. 곰은 그것의 왼쪽 편에서든 오른쪽 편에
서든 똑같이 위험하지만, 거꾸로 뒤집혀 있다면 그렇
지 않다. 사실, 우리가 식물, 동물, 그리고 자동차나 도
로 표지판과 같은 인간이 만든 물체가 포함된 장면을
관찰할 때, 만약 그 인공적인 물체들을 관찰한다.
-->
우리의 공간 지각의 진화에 영향을 미쳤기 때문
에, 수직적 차원과 앞/뒤 차원은 쉽게 인식되지만,
자연에서 유의미하지 않은 좌‑우 축은 우리에게 즉각
이해되지 않는다.

(10)
Ms. Blake는 Eva가 연습 후 그녀의 짐을 싸는
것을 지켜보면서, 축구장의 가장자리를 따라 걸었다.
그녀는 잠시 멈춰 섰다가 큰 소리로 말했다. “이봐, Eva! 조금 더 있다 가는 건 어때? 우리 연습 좀 해 보
자. 우리 둘이서만.” Eva는 망설였다. “글쎄요, 코치님. 저 좀 피곤해요.” Ms. Blake는 그녀에게 따뜻한 미소
를 지었다. “딱 10분만. 재미있을 거야. 약속해.” 그녀
는 여전히 마음이 내키지는 않았지만, 결국 Eva는 수
락했다. 그들은 함께 공을 패스하는 것을 연습했다.
Ms. Blake는 Eva의 움직임이 느리고 정신이 다
른 곳에 있다는 것을 알아차렸다. 침묵을 깨며, Ms.
Blake가 물었다. “너 작년 결승전 기억나니?” “네, 기
억나요.” Eva는 자신이 세 골을 넣었던 경기를 떠올렸
다. “그땐 제가 꽤 잘했어요.” “너 아직도 그래,” Ms.
Blake가 답했다. “글쎄요. 지금은 골을 못 넣고 심지어
패스조차 제대로 못할까 봐 너무 걱정돼요. 실수하는
게 두려워요,” Eva가 말했다. Ms. Blake는 더 가까이 다가가 Eva의 어깨에
손을 얹어 안심시켰다. 그녀가 넌지시 말했다. “완벽할
필요는 없어. 축구는 완벽함이 아니라 열정에 관한 거
야. 그리고 너는 항상 그것(열정)을 많이 갖고 있었
어.” Eva의 시선이 Ms. Blake의 시선과 마주쳤다. “코
치님은 정말 그렇게 생각하세요?” Ms. Blake는 단호하
게 말했다. “그럼. 네가 경기하는 방식, 네가 주는 에
너지, 그게 너를 특별하게 만드는 거야. 득점한 골이나
획득한 트로피가 아니고, 네가 가진 이 경기에 대한
사랑하는 마음 말이야.” Eva는 깊은 생각에 잠기며 고
개를 끄덕였다.다음 경기에서, Ms. Blake는 사이드라인에서
Eva가 경기하는 것을 지켜보았다. 이전에는 없었던 새
로운 자신감이 있었다. Eva는 비록 득점하지는 못했지
만, 팀을 성공적으로 이끌었다. 경기가 끝난 후 그녀는
(코치에게) 달려왔고, “저를 믿어 주셔서 감사해요, 코
치님.”이라고 말했다. Ms. Blake도 미소로 화답했다. “너는 항상 그 능력을 갖고 있었어. 난 단지 그걸 네게
상기시켜 주기 위해 여기 있는 거야.” 자기 자신에게
너무 엄격했다는 것을 깨달으며, Eva의 얼굴이 부드러
워졌다. 그리고 혼잣말로 말했다. “중요한 건 완벽한
것이 아니라, 최선을 다하는 거야.”